---
title: Major
bannerTitle: First Burn
layout: default
subnav: first-burn
---

Hr09 stepped into the debriefing room at the command centre, eight hours after
mission complete. Seven hours plugged into Meejamother and all his needs were
met. Exo cleaned, waste recycled, vitals input and now digesting. A total
immersion, interactive exultation story line was generated to resolve guilt and
stimulate revenge feelings. Great sex, great drugs, 'kill the bastards' general
entertainment and a half hour beta-snooze to finish.

A long stroll through the greenhouses before going to see Major. Just about all
their food came from these growing factories. The green and the smells calmed
him. He didn't know why. Some non-human things had made it down here too, when
the bombs drove them underground. Various mutations, evolutions, whatever. They
would russle and flit, always just out of sight. "Go vermin!" is what he always
thought. It made him happy that something lived beyond the remit of the Power,
outside the virtual sex and violence of the Meejamother cocoon. Control could
never be complete.

Major wouldn't agree with that. Her exo was tuned for systems control, through
and through. In Major, the integration of human and machine was complete. The
Power that coordinated Meejamother, mining, growing, missile production and
infrastructure still needed command input. Volition was the one thing that its
parralel processing couldn't get right. The Power had given birth and grown
Major and her tribe for volitional input. The tribe had the best. Their
symbiosis was near perfect.

Major listened to her headup giving her a history lesson. "Round about the same
time as the last person to remember the sky died, our targeting team were
themselves targeted. The Power had run a modelled, hi-concept scenario to keep
damage from infiltrations to a minimum. The basic idea was to divide the chain
of command so that no one group had total control. Since the targeting team
were wiped, we've had to keep the targeting computer running the same targets
because no one has the cryptokey to get access and change them".

She flipped the headup off as Hr09 strode in. 

"Bringing back Mn04's mydox and cryptokey has been your final exam. You are
finaly ready for your destiny. The Power thinks it can modify a missile to take
you to the enemy and eject you just before impact. You gotta record telemetry
and get it back to us. Then you will go down as close to the enemy command as you
can fight your way to, and blow it the fuck UP! They will have many defences but
your task will be simplified by not having to get back out. Your dream come
true, yes?"

"Thank you mam!"

"We know that you've waited patiently for this chance to die in our great
cause. The Power blesses you, your genes will multiply".

He didn't notice but his exo had given him five micros of shine. The far rumble
and shock through the seams of rock made him feel like racing. How could they
defend against so commited an assailant?

He grinned at Major. "Let's go!"

