---
bannerTitle: First Burn
title: GForce
type: prose/firstburn
url: '/firstburn/gforce'
---

The warhead was roomy inside the tip of the missile. He relied on the exo to
secure him, but at four points this time. The exo had been upgraded with an
extra layer of capabilities. Parachute, radiation shields, re-breather and
supplies. Life support for ten days plus, of course, the all important
munitions. The servos in the exo had been louder carrying the extra weight.
Enough to vaporise a city.

They must've had much faith in him. If he went down then they'd lost a missile
and another fully trained and equipped Hr09. Expensive. But all he had to do
was ride the missile's g-forces, parachute to the surface and - God alone knew
what the surface was like after all this time - send their telemetry and find a
way down beneath the layer the ICBMs could damage. Locate their centre and
damage it as much as he could. The ultimate guided missile.

The countdown started. He sealed his exo. Ten micros of chill took the edge off
the tension. He didn't register the main engines starting but he could feel the
acceleration. OHMYGOD could he feel that! Crushed against the back of the exo,
his face distorting and then black out.

Weightless, he floated back to consciousness. He couldn't really see anything
but guessed he was at the top of the parabola. The engines shook his bones but
at the same time he was disconnected. Maybe it was the shot of chill, but he
felt as though he stepped sideways out of the world. Out of time and into the
void. A nameless terror filled the world, the drop yawned below. Certainty
sucked him down into the abyss.

Suddenly, inexplicably, he could see himself from outside just as a camera
might. As the missile gathered its apocalyptic downward plunge, he saw his own
figure wedged inside the warhead. Saw the exo with its fluted rib cage of
hi-explosives. Saw his own face through the helmet, past the headup assembly
into the bewildered eyes, into the cavern of pooling shock as he screamed along
with the missiles jets, dropping into the maw of silence.

Pressure sensors triggered the eject sequence. Parachute straps snapped taut,
he grunted and looked down for the missile. Already out of sight amongst the
blackening vapors. Dark, violent winds span him through clouds of caustic
moisture. Shortly the ground lunged up and brutalised him. While he struggled
to regain his breath, towers of volcanic rubble loomed over the crumpled crash
zone. The cold of the windchill penetrated even through the exo's protection.
His head cleared and he got up and faught his way through the gail to shadows.
The base of a cliff undercut and he hoped it would provide some shelter. Deep
in the recesses he thermo-scanned - nothing! He sat down on the rubble and
turned down his lights to half. He didn't want to be spotted but he needed to
take stock. He wasn't injured in the fall but the exo had absorbed a hell of an
impact. System scan showed the broadcast beacon non-functional. The telemetry
data was stored but he wasn't going to be able to send it yet. He didn't expect
to be able to send it from the surface anyway. No signals had been received for
years. Enemy infrastructure might provide means though. The blast of a falling
bomb shook the world. Rocks fell heavily down the cliff face. They hadn't
paused the barrage in order not to give any signal of anything unusual to the
enemy. He had to find a way down. The micro-tremor scanner picked up something.
Heading into the deeper darkness he thermo-scanned again. There! Figures
watched him.

There must be some tunnel entrance. The figures had disappeared once he started
towards them. Starting a scan on an air sample at the tunnel mouth, he watched
the exo readout. These where ordinary humanoid air breathers of some sort. They
would probably want to eat him. Rather than fight them, he decided to give them
bait. Looking down the list of supplies, he found the sweetest thing he had.
Chokblobz! He chucked one down the shaft and waited. A short cafuffle and much
grunting soon followed. Pairs of eyes now peered at him from the top of the
tunnel. Another chokblob, chucked on the floor to the right. They would have to
get nearer to him to get it but they would have to come out of the tunnel. The
bravest of them was soon to move. He bet that they had never tasted such
sweetness. He lobbed a whole handful and they all came out. Rags, hair, twisted
limbs.Â A group of six, delight shining in their eyes. The first had begun to
cry, overwhelmed by the beauty streaming from his taste buds. Boy could
chokblobz deliver!

He made a slow move towards them. Their fear still strong but over-powered by
the melting glory in their mouths, they moved back. He hefted another handful
of the sweets over their heads and made for the tunnel as they scrambled away
after them. Lights on to full, he made out the ledges the creatures used to go
up and down. Before long he got to a chamber. The mutant's tunnels went in
every direction. Excited whispering came from the shadows. Noticing what looked
like a sheet of metal leaning against a wall of the chamber, he went over to
check it out. The curving side of a big, vertical shaft. Maybe an old missile
launch tube or an air intake?

Starting his main laser made the whisperings turn to shrieks. Footsteps fled
away and he could start on getting into this tube without an audience. The
metal was thick and he had to cut a largish hole. Ten minutes and he shut off
the laser. The circular hole was nearly complete except for a small strip at
its base acting as a hinge. Getting a thin gemmy into the cut at the top, he
levered his entrance outwards. He didn't want to drop it down the shaft and
alert anything down there.

He braced against the metal whorls and bent the metal flap down, servos
whirring. Carefully, he nudged a remote into the hole. Nothing! He edged his
head through and the exo measured two hundred metres down. No problem! He set
up a line and got ready to rappel down.

