---
title: Leaving
banner-title: Pilgrimage - Mahabodhi Moonlight
layout: subnav
subnav: pilgrimage
---

!["Hugh Carroll, Ladakh 2005"]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/pilg1/pilg14a.jpg "Hugh Carroll, Ladakh 2005")


It is April 2005 when I hand back the keys to the landlord. The nest
my wife and I had made was hard to leave. We have a last hug and I
say goodbye to this woman who doesn’t want to be my wife any more.
Most of my stuff is sold or given away and the tech job is over. I
get in the car that my mate is going to drive to the airport. As we
pull away and the landlord and ex recede behind us I realise that
the last time I had no keys of any kind was when I was five years
old. As I decide that my new ‘home’ is going to be the practice of
‘looking deeply at life as it is in the very here and now’ (a quote
from the ‘<a
href="https://www.accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/mn/mn.131.than.html">Bhaddekaratta
Sutta</a>’) I have a tremendous sense of the release of tension and
excitement at my upcoming adventure. It is the first time any light
has fallen into the darkness of my broken heart in a long time.

With the collapse of the marriage I felt that if I trudged on by
myself in that wee flat and the IT job I had chiselled my way into,
I would just not make it. Way too sad and lonely to survive for
long. So it was an opportunity to do THE PILGRIMAGE! The plan was to
go to the big four sites of Buddhism – where the Buddha was born,
where he got enlightened, where he started teaching and where he
died. But first, Ladakh! John Crook, had spent a lot of time up
there in the high Himalayan desert kingdom. He wrote a fabulous book
called “The Yogins of Ladakh” all about it and I wanted to visit as
many of the people and places in that book as I could. We had
decided that it would be best to go there first since it was
springtime. Doing the big four sites of the main pilgrimage straight
away would mean landing myself in the ferocious heat of the North
Eastern Indian summer.

