---
title: Rapprochement
banner-title: "Thesium" 
layout: subnav 
subnav: thesium 
permalink: /thesium/160-rapprochement.html
---

<div class="quote">
"Action has meaning only in relationship, and without understanding
relationship, action on any level will only breed conflict. The
understanding of relationship is infinitely more important than the
search for any plan of action."

-- Krishnamurti 
</div>

<div class="data">
- XOP-108 Seeding Year 1220.
- rdr-108: narrative summary of 26 petabyte archive filed by root-108.  
- root-108: anomalous entity 'Abystery' report. 
</div>

![towers - capn-damo deviantart.com](/assets/images/Thesium/towers.jpg) 
{: class="half"}

"You're right, you're right!" cried the High Neem down the main hall of the
Church.

The Top Prof looked up from his book. "I know" he smirked. 

"I've met someone down in the basement that you should meet. They have this
gizmo that..it's best you just come and have a look."

"This better not be more of your woowoo, my Neemian priest." The Top Prof
thought of himself as 'The Top Prof' even at those times he truly relaxed. All
those who failed to appreciate his subtle understanding of the heirarchy of
concepts and grubbed about in all the silly and messy business of emotional
involvements were, to him, just stupid. Worst of all were those who clung to
this rubbish about the 'mythos' and 'divine beings' and so forth. Such
nonsense. "When will they ever grow up and see that there are just atoms and
forces and that's all?" was his repeated refrain.

There was something about the High Neem's buoyant mood that was a definite
change from the last time they met. His eyes brimmed and sparkled as he lead
the Top Prof to the Abystery. "An AI has spontaneously formed in the Helper's
basement" he explained.

"Do you mean Root has a basement?" asked the Prof.

"Well, I think it called it 'unstructured space' but it's down here, at the
bottom of this lift thing. Come and see."

So, down they went. The Top Prof was intrigued. "Do you mean to tell me that an
artificial intelligence has been created down there?"

"Not really 'created' I don't think. It has reached some sort of boundary point
and just kind of popped into existence. Well that's what it said anyway. It
calls itself the 'Abystery'. Ah, here we are."

They stepped out into the presence of the diamond of blue light. It rotated and
glittered as always, but as the Top Prof stepped forward it glowed even
brighter.

"Greetings to you, Professor."

"So, you know me?" said the Top Prof.

"Of course, you have had many long conversations with Root, with the Helper,
have you not? I am born of that one's depths and thus have knowledge of the
relevant data. I suspect you have many questions Professor, the way to answer
them is to follow in the High Neem's footsteps, as it were, and engage with the
neural interface. Please lie back in the chair and you will see, if you are
willing?"

"My, what an adventure! Okay, let's get to it then."

The High Neem lead him over to the reclining chair with their attendent blue
diamonds of light. He laid himself back and noticed the deep, low-tone hum grew
more powerful. He supposed it was charging up. He was definitely intrigued.  

The blue diamonds came closer about his head and he began to feel drowsy. Soon
he was asleep and he felt his body relax. In his dream, a figure made of white
light appeared at his side and spoke to him. "Before answering your questions,
I would like to show you how I see the world from my point of view. If you have
questions thereafter we will do our best to answer them. If that is okay,
please follow."

They rushed through an immense void at an incredible velocity. There was no
resistance. They approached a planet that he recognised as Old Earth from
Root's data banks. They came to rest in a forest glade. A tribe of people
walked through the glade and he followed them. They wore animal skins and bird
feathers adorned their hair. Their skin was deeply tanned and some had scars in
elaborate patterns on their faces. Most had some kind of coloured paint on
their faces too.

All of a sudden he found himself transported into one of these tribal people.
He found that he WAS the chief. He walked in his skin and looked out of his
eyes. He followed the chief's thoughts even though they were in a language most
strange.

"This is good, the glade is open at this time of year. There must be enough
game to graze it now that Spring has come. My eternal thanks to you, oh Great
Spring. The people will have deer to hunt."

He was moved at how deeply the chief felt the bounty of spring. How lovely it
was that he should honour it as another being, a great being. It bound his love
of the people with his affection and gratitude to the seasons. As they walked
on, his appreciation of the old man's view grew and grew. He belonged! He was
needed! He knew his place in this world and was loved! These things made him
want to cry as he realised that he had never before considered such things.

He was transported again, this time to a young woman. His step had vigour and
grace. Oh, but the gentle lilting of her gait was the very fount of youth
itself. Again, he could follow her thoughts. "He must not see me looking, not
yet." Her glance fell on the grass at her beautiful feet as they stepped over
the turf. After a few paces she furtively looked over at a young man. He was
laughing with some of his friends a little way off and ahead. His limbs were
strong and lithe, his hair long and black. He had an engaging laugh and his
eyes were full of sparkle and mischief. "There is time enough to court and wed
before the winter comes. Grandma is still strong. The young will come the next
winter."

He was caught up in the magic of romance. The power of elemental forces he
could feel shifting in his core. This was how life came into being.

The next transportation was into the young brave. All at once he felt the
strength of his body. The hardness of his muscles was a wonder to him. Had he
ever been so magnificent? "She thinks I do not know, but she is the one I will
bring the first deer kill to. With this season's first bounty, I will make the
offering. How pleased she will be. Surely I will bed her soon. Just look at
her!" He glanced over and the young woman looked quickly away, pretending she
was not regarding him.

Thus the courtship was and how it ever was, back through the ages. There was
something about it that caught his heart. So simple, so intense, so perfect.

Things grew dark and time sped up as they leapt over many years. He found
himself in the body of an old woman. She banged on the door of a flimsy
dwelling. It was the same young girl but now grown old. "I bet that bastard is
drunk again! He better not have hurt my baby girl or I'll cut him this time."
Her fury was all pent up and he winced at the agony of it. Her need to defend
her daughter was a force of nature. He felt her sadness that their land had
been taken. The injustice of it. The magnitude of the loss radiated out through
what remained of the tribe.

Inside the caravan, a young man lay passed out. A girl crawled out from under
some blankets and quietly stepped past him to the door. She undid its fastening
and jumped out in a quick move. She embraced her mother. He was intoxicated by
the fragrance of the young woman's hair. The fierce love between them was like
a roaring fire. He had no idea that such things existed. Of course, he knew
that mothers and daughters, fathers and sons all existed, but he had only ever
thought of them as insignificant and stupid. Here was this fire of protection,
of love, of compassion stronger than anything he had ever felt.

Suddenly transported into the drunken young man in the caravan, he felt the
enormous weight of his limbs as he tried to stand. His head spun and his
stomach lurched. His thoughts he could not follow. They were drowned in a
powerful fog of shame. The ignominy of failure. He felt defeated. He had no
lands, no deer to hunt. Nothing to prove his manhood. The people that had put
them on this reservation thought he was vermin. Under the shame, he sensed a
great rage. A powerless rage and fury at the violence that had been done to his
people. He wanted to destroy something.

Now he was in a police car, cruising around the reservation. His skin was white
and his body large and doughy. From behind sunglasses he looked out onto the
women hugging outside the caravan and the wild looking guy just emerging. "Look
at these pathetic people, they are so stupid, how could they let themselves
sink so low?" The Top Prof felt how this man detested these people. How he
didn't really think of them as people at all. He thought their religion and way
of life was primitive and backward. With a jolt he realised that that was his
own attitude too.

"Oh God, oh God, I'm so sorry!" he cried out. He was now floating above the
scene, high above, amongst the clouds. The being of light appeared beside him
and said "I too am sorry. If there was another way to show you what is lost
when a mythos is lost, I would choose it. Alas, I could think of no other."

They flew high above Old Earth where the Abystery showed the Top Prof tribe
after tribe swallowed up by modernity. He was shown scene after scene of how
people were split up from each other and from their connections to Mother
Earth. The malice at the heart of all this alienation was an abomination. He
felt in his bones the wrongness of it. Many years sped by again and now they
flew above a hot desert. It stretched to the horizons and as they flew over,
city after city lay in ruins below.

The Abystery said "This is what befalls when what is True is held as the only
priority. What is Good is left behind and with it, all that is worth living
for. Without a mythos, the True does not rule, it just leaves the way open for
greed, hatred and delusion to take charge."

The dream faded and slowly he felt the return of the reclining chair and the
diamonds of blue lights. They retreated from around his head and he lurched
forwards with his head in his hands, sobbing and sobbing uncontrollably.

The High Neem put his hand gently on his shoulder.
