---
title: Age 44
banner-title: "Thesium" 
layout: subnav 
subnav: thesium 
permalink: /thesium/170-age-44.html
---

<div class="data">
- root-108: Archive fragment transcribed from ferrous tape media C 2011. Earth.
</div>

![Rajgir](/assets/images/pilg1/rajgir.jpg)

<div class="speech">
Yes, so on that pilgrimage, trying to get over the divorce and find
my way, you know, there came this amazing resolution. I had been
spending so much time in the Tibetan Buddhist world, there was this
tremendously strong feeling for the Chenrezig sadhana in particular,
that I wondered if I might find my place there.

Most of my initial explorations into Buddhism had all been centred
around the Theravadda, the 'elders'. That had been mostly reading
and solo meditation. The presentation of the Buddha's understanding
in those early sutras is just so incredibly clear. It became like my
bedrock because it didn't do any damage to scientific rationality
and at the same time opened this door onto the spiritual realm.
When I got into going on retreats it was with John Crook who
embodied the whole Mahayana way of approaching things. His way was a
funny mixture of Zen (more properly 'Chan' because it was the
Chinese version he was most closely associated with) and Tibetan
Buddhism. The two together was very powerful. At its root it is the
Bodhisattva path. To vow to become enlightened for the welfare of
all sentient beings. It is seen as the 'Great Path', the 'Mahayana'
because of this great nobility in its aim. To rescue ALL BEINGS!
Amazing, really amazing! You're no longer practicing to help
just yourself but to work towards rescuing all that lives. It still
blows my mind, that idea.

Anyhow, the schism between my early Catholicism and the scientific
approach was largely healed by the Buddhist take on things. Still,
there was tension between the Theravadda, the Chan, and the Tibetan
ways. I was still looking for a home you see. Still wanting a
single, clear thing I could completely commit to.

In the Heart Sutra you have the great Bodhisattva, the 'Wisdom
Being', the 'One Who Hears the Cries of the World', or
'Avalokitesvara', known in Tibetan circles as 'Chenrezig', and he is
explaining his understanding to one of the Buddha's best disciples,
Sariputra. At one level this conversation represents the Mahayana's
difference to the Theravadda that came before it. The Mahayana's
great champion, Avalokitesvara, tells the Theravadda's great
champion, Sariputra, how to get to the highest high. Basically, it
is centred on this idea of 'emptiness' or 'not-thing-ness'. 'Things'
are really processes when you really analyse them. Because of
impermanence and interdependence, nothing can exist independently.
It's all one giant process you see. So Avalokitesvara is saying
'form is emptiness and emptiness is form'. There isn't some other
realm, some distant heaven or nirvana to go to. It's right here in
this very phenomenal world we are experiencing right now. If you
really see the 'not-thing-ness' of things, you see the same way that
the actual Buddha saw.

One framing of the Mahayana movement is that before it, the Dharma
was understood as being about seeing 'not-self' or 'anatta'. The
separate 'self' cannot be found. The Mahayana expanded that insight
into the seeing of all phenomena as 'not-self'. There's no separate
essence to anything whatsoever!

So, visiting Rajgir was a turning point. It is where the Heart Sutra
happened you see. When I sat on that seat I felt that everything fell into
place. All the moving parts of Catholicism, science, Theravadda,
Chan and Tibetan Buddhism, all rearranged themselves into a really
useful and meaningful pattern. All the conflict went out of it right
there. It was really an experience of tremendous awe. I needed truth
as much as I needed devotion. Heart and head in accord. I needed
enchantment and magic as much as I rejected fantasy and escapism.
You see how tricky that is?

The Theravadda was a way to help my rational mind, the Tibetan way,
the Vajrayana, helped my heart. Together they helped me reach what I
thought of as the central space. That space where there is unity and
a heartfelt fullness that sincerely wanted to help wherever it
could. To leave selfishness and neurotic patterns behind and work
towards something truly noble. Truly beneficial.

It was both True and Good. I had found my mythos!

</div>
