---
title: Seeds
banner-title: "Thesium" 
layout: default 
subnav: thesium 
permalink: /thesium/index.html
---

<div class="quote">
"The ship wherein Theseus and the youth of Athens returned
from Crete had thirty oars, and was preserved by the Athenians down even to the
time of Demetrius Phalereus, for they took away the old planks as they decayed,
putting in new and stronger timber in their places, in so much that this ship
became a standing example among the philosophers, for the logical question of
things that grow; one side holding that the ship remained the same, and the
other contending that it was not the same."  

--â€‰Plutarch, Theseus
</div>

![another sunset somewhere - capn-damo on deviantart.com](/assets/images/Thesium/another-sunset-somewhere.png)


The deep future. Gaia's son mourns her dying and casts many seeds onto the
winds. His hope is to replant the earth and have it grow again, to conjure Gaia
back to life. He looked for a story that could hold a world together. He needed
a mythos.

Most people had thought of the wars as coming from over-consumption, but he saw
them as a conflict between the Good and the True. A war between religion and
science. The world had lost a central myth to hold it together. Secularisation
had weakened the myth to the point where there was no longer a shared story and
in the vacuum that followed, rampant profiteering had dominated. Wearing the
mask of Truth, it used science to facilitate its rush, even if that was a rush
to destruction. It had killed everyone but this son and his helpers. He had
fled to shelter with Luna and awaited any fruit that may return as he cast his
hopeful seeds into the void. Because he was Gaia's son and because his task
would take many ages to fulfill, if ever, he had named himself 'Kronos'.

Forever orbitting his dead mother, the moon kept Kronos safe. This is where he
made his plans.

Humanity's central Artificial Intelligence, this Kronos, had sent out a myriad
of colonising 'seed' ships. Essentially von Neumann machines, they were sent
into the main node of the wormhole network. They could maintain themselves and
build new versions of themselves, adapting as they went. This made them just
about immortal. One such goes to the planet eventually called 'Thesium' by its
inhabitants. The seeds had crews in cryogenesis and banks of dormant human
embryos. They need not know of the gulfs of time and space through which they
had travelled. It had long been known that human minds were simply not equipped
to cope with such knowledge. 'Always simplify the story' had been Kronos'
motto. They need not know of the constantly evolving technologies and theories
behind the wormholes, the QEC or quantum-entagled communications systems, the
relativistic effects, the neutrino matter assemblers. On and on, the limits of
understanding were always pushing forwards.

The culture had developed so much faster than individual minds could cope with.
People were essentially still nomads, adapted to think in terms of 'next
winter' and 'when the baby is old enough', to manipulate wood, stone, fire.
Each group lasted millenia and always had a central story around which they
configured their lives. Their mythos was their frame. When science really got
going there was a break with these myths. At one and the same time humanity was
freed of them and thrown into confusion. The overshoot of consumption tipped
the planet's balance passed coping. During the Great Death, as it
became known, most of the Earth's species became extinct. Life on the surface
became mostly intolerable.

Thus a future oriented plan was initiated. Amidst the wreckage of political
upheavals, of mass migrations and water wars, a group of the best scientists
gathered and started work. Somehow they co-opted military funding streams. It
took several generations before they were self-sufficient and by the time the
first seed ships were launched, the moon had become their base. The last few
fascist regimes were still eating themselves, and each other, while the
wormhole gates were constructed. Rats and dogs had become the apex predators
when the greatest artificial intelligence ever known, Kronos, had come online.

It was hoped that by the time the Earth had cooled down again maybe Gaia could
be reborn. Kronos was designed to try again no matter how long it took. He
searched with infinite patience, searched for the missing piece of the jigsaw,
the mythos that would unite the Good with the True. A story that could hold a
humanity sustaining world. The great AI waited for its Readers to report.

