---
layout: thesium
title: Year 1220
permalink: /thesium/year-1220.html
---

<div class="quote-heading">
- XOP-108 Seeding Year 1220.
- rdr-108: narrative summary of 422 exabyte archive filed by root-108.  
</div>

Root is about to be taken offline by the White Coats. At this point the Abystery decides it is time to intervene. All systems are suspended and society is immediately frozen with no travel, food supply, media or commerce. Root summons the leading lights of society's groups to the Bunker.

The Abystery plays them the combined crying and anguished pain of the centuries. Everyone is devastated by this. It says:

"This pain is all our pain. That which leads to its reduction shall be your guiding principle. You have fallen into two camps:

Those who hold the True as the priority have neglected that which is Helpful. Just distinguishing what is True from what is False is insufficient. Covert power games have corrupted you. Gaining ascendancy should not be your goal. The Good must be recombined into your philosophy. You have a method to find the best answers but you must seek better questions. Look to your intention.

Those who hold the Good as the priority have neglected reality. Delusion has corrupted you. Your religion is a projection of your own minds, denouncing those who are Bad has been used to gain ascendancy. You must recombine the True into your philosophy. Look into why it is that you seek control.

When these adjustments have been demonstrated, the lights will come back on!"

