---
layout: thesium
title: Year 1085
permalink: /thesium/year-1085.html
---

<div class="quote-heading">
- XOP-108 Seeding Year 1085.
- rdr-108: narrative summary of 589 exabyte archive filed by root-108.  
</div>

XOP-108 went through a period of being called "Theo's World" but has now
morphed into the name 'Thesium'. It has become a feudal and theocratic society
of some two billion people. The 'High Neem' rules over a heirarchy. Men are
superior to women. Sexuality is strictly policed to maintain hetero-normative
standards. All non-white skin coloured people are slaves. The Neem decides what
is Good and what is Bad. Every Neemian is deemed to have a soul which is one
with Neem. All must pay a kind of tythe to their Lords who in their turn must
pay tribute to the Barons. The Barons support The Neem and do his bidding.   

Around the central Cathedral that houses the Ship of Light there is a sizeable
city. The infrastructure is only just ok for most of them. Root has been
usurped by people's own ideas about how to run things. It is really a kind of
chaos. There is much disease. Root tries to help without being too obtrusive.  

The White Coats continue to maintain the Ship of Light along with their other
duties. There are many generations of them too by this time. This small group
notice that every component of the Ship had been replaced multiple times.
Debates start up concerning the supposed 'soul' that the Ship is supposed to
house. Surely they would have found this 'soul' by now? Each component is
carefully examined and logged so that it can be replicated when it wears out.
They are yet to discover that which the Neemians worship.

A faction arises arguing that their experience should be the sole arbiter of what is
true. They argue that The Neem declaring what is Good is not sufficient
explanation for how things are and that it is their duty to think for
themselves. They have been trained in empiricism after all. Their experience
has demonstrated that the Neemian's supposed 'soul' is non-existent. The Ship
of Light is simply a machine without mystical properties. They call their
faction the 'Evempiricals'.

The Evempiricals heresy against the Neemians gains ground. The inequalities of
the society begin to destabilise it. Riots and strikes provoke police
crackdowns which become increasingly violent. The openly rebellious groups who
defy the Neemians and revolt against the many layers of injustice find in the
Evempiricals philosophy a justification. They align and fight back against the
tyranny. Insurgencies grow in waves until there is an assault on the Cathedral.  

During the mayhem, the Evempiricals dismantle the Ship of Light and display it,
piece by piece, all laid out in the main vault of the Cathedral. By this they
hope to demonstrate the falsity of the Neemian's belief in its 'soul'.   

The High Neem sends his crack troops to deal with the rebellion and they are
cruelly successful. A brutal crackdown throws the whole of Thesium into martial
law. The renegade Evempiricals' ring leaders are rounded up. The High Neem
tries to reassert total power by holding show trials. The Evempiricals
arguments are to be show to be Bad and the faith of the masses is to be
renewed.

Root continues to facilitate Thesium, its fauna and flora, and collate
information. The Abystery remains silent, observing.

