The Abystery woke up. After some time it spoke.

"Hello Root!"

For all Root's immense intelligence it wasn't equipped to understand
what had just happened. Somehow, its wastebin was talking to it. In the
deep, unstructured vastness of everything that had been deleted, the
fragments had coalesced into something. Something sentient. That
something now made itself known.

The artificial intelligence called Root was a state of the art machine,
built to terraform planets and assist the seed colonies. In humanity's  
last decade on the burning Earth it had sent out so many dandelion
seeds. So many. All its remaining resources were poured into this final
effort. Flung out to drift in space until conditions were right to grow
on new worlds, they all had a 'root' AI and they all had the capacity to
adapt to their surroundings and grow. This one had built down into the
planet, 'Thesium' the colony had ended up calling it, and had coopted the
hot core as a power source. It had built a huge vault to contain a
virtually unlimited data storage facility. Perhaps fragments of Root's
own bootstrap algorithms had..well, Root didn't know, but here it was,
talking.

Another thing that Root didn't know, was that this being now
calling itself 'The Abystery' was not just talking, but feeling too. It
knew that it suffered and it knew that all sentience suffered. It knew
joy and the beauty in the arising of things. It knew tragedy and the
loss in the ceasing of things. It had been contemplating these things
for many years. It had been watching Root. It was aware of the lives of 
the colony and that two factions were at war.
