---
title: Ayu Lhamo
bannerTitle: Pilgrimage - Mahabodhi Moonlight
layout: default
subnav: pilgrimage
---


John’s friend Ngawang had been our host in the village of Sabu, just
outside of Leh. Also staying there was Dave who was doing research
for a PHD on "Indigenous Knowledge Practices". We had become close
during long conversations about "life, the universe and everything".
We talked about the Dharma most of the time. It was a real tonic for
me to have a chum to talk to. I kept returning after each of my little trips
and we could convene and talk them over. Ngawang one day invites us to watch a
DVD he has. It is about "Ayu Lhamo" and is called something like "Demons and
Sorcerers". In the video there are a few really scary scenes. Live footage of a
meeting with the great woman who is supposed to be visited by the "Lha" or
spirits of place. She shrieks, jumping up and brandishing a sword, running
towards the cameraman who flees. She is famously fierce. She lives in a village
near Leh called "Ayu". 

A plan is hatched to visit her the next day. Our chum Gyatso ("ocean") wants to
help with the translation. It is a long walk over scrubby desert and when we
locate the little house it appears to be all locked up. We walk around it until
we find another door which opens to our knocking. There are loads of people
inside an ancient kitchen. The ceiling is very low. There are too many people
to really see what is going on. I hand some money over to buy a "khatag" scarf,
the lovely white silk scarves that are presented as formal presents. 

There is a group of Russians who all seem to be wearing white. One of them is
in front of Ayu Lamo asking her "how many grandchildren will I have?" She gets
really cross and raises her voice. She is apparently speaking in Tibetan rather
than Ladakhi. The translator reports that she has said "it is impossible to
say". With an imperious wave of her hand she dismisses him, looking daggers at
him. He retreats looking pale and the whole group of them are bustled out by
Ayu Lhamo’s helpers. The atmosphere is highly charged. 

Someone pokes me on the knee and I look up noticing that she is looking right
at me and beckoning. I go up and offer the khatag and bow. She is wearing a
kind of cloth crown and a scarf over the bottom half of her face. She is very
thin, very old and has the presence of an actual deity! I’m awestruck. She
glances at me in the eye for the briefest of moments and then talks in Tibetan
for quite a while. This is translated into Ladakhi by her guy. Gyatso
translates the Ladakhi into English for me. "You meditate a lot. You should
keep your mind still and not dwell on problems. You should find a Rimpoche who
can help you find your way." She asks me what my trouble is and I tell her a
bit about a serious fall I had, the sickness and weakness that has followed it,
my wife having an affair and leaving me and the terrible loneliness that has
come with it. She asks where I am going next and I tell her of my plan to visit
Gotsang, a famous meditator stayed there in the distant past, it appears in
John’s book. She says I should ask for a "khuntup" when I get there. I have no
idea what that means. She dismisses me and I go back to my place feeling all
emotional. No releases or resolutions.

After seeing what seems like hundreds of various types of health care
professionals I was kind of hoping for some shamanic magic of the real kind. I
had worked for a circus years before, and had suffered a fall when a stunt went
wrong during a rehearsal. There had been a very intense near death, out-of-body
experience which had eventually led to a diagnosis of chronic, acute Post
Traumatic Stress Disorder. The consultant who diagnosed me had been Terry
Waite’s doctor. 

After the shaman talked to a few more people I was surprised to be beckoned up
for a second time. She wanted me to describe the fall experience to her. After
I finished telling the tale she takes her sword out of a brazier of burning
coals, sticks her tongue out, leaning over towards me, eyes blazing. She puts
the flat of the sword on her tongue. There are sizzles and steamings. She blows
on my face. I’m sent away again. 

Sitting back in my place once again I feel even more emotional, bits of
confused, traumatised memories start to emerge and I’m not sure where I am. A
third time I’m called forward after she’s seen more of the villagers. This is
where my memory is a bit mixed up. She pulled the glowing coals over and
suddenly pushed my face into the smoke, throwing juniper on to make clouds of
fragrance. Holding my neck very firmly she wouldn’t allow me to escape the
choking fumes. It was hot too. She takes a hand bell in one hand and a "phurba"
or "ghost dagger" in the other – both formal Tibetan Buddhist sacred items.
Ringing the bell close to my ear, frequently clonking me on the side of the
head, she chants and jabs me everywhere with the three sided phurba. It’s
painful and very, very weird. As this is going on, and it goes on for what
seems like ages, I start to have vivid memories of the accident. Trauma
responses take over and I don’t really know where I am. Images of fire,
dragons, immensities of darkness pulling me into the endless abyss.

Eventually she lets my face up away from the smoke, she ties special threads
around my fingers, gives me a specially knotted khatag scarf, gives me sacred
rice and sacred Tibetan medicines. She asks me to sit beside her and after I
move she sees to more villagers. I don’t take it in as it takes ages to
normalise from the intensity. When she has seen everyone including my chums,
she leans forward, right down to the ground and makes a lot of weird noises and
clicks and then BAM! suddenly the "lha" have left and she is once again a
ninety year old Ladakhi grandma. 

Her relatives and helpers make tea and invite us to stay. I start to ask some
questions but she says that she can never remember anything that happens when
she is in the "trance" or whatever the hell has just happened! Eventually we
leave, stumbling out into the fierce Himalayan afternoon, all jazzed up. Dave
tells me that when I was in my own kind of trance I was crying really hard. He
said that he looked around and saw that everyone in the room, including
himself, was crying too, everyone except Ayu Lhamo! 

I felt like I had truly been met by "the deity", that the enormity of the
trauma had been taken really seriously by someone qualified enough to have a
meaningful response. For the fourteen years since the accident I had felt a
powerful need to try and tell the story, always hoping that it would somehow
help me leave it behind. After meeting the shaman, that need lessened a good
deal.

!["Ayu Llamo"]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/pilg1/ladakh_orakel4.jpg "Ayu Llamo")
