---
bannerTitle: Pilgrimage
title: Gotsang Gompa
type: prose/pilgrimage
---

!["Gotsang Gompa"](/images/pilg1/dscn0093.jpg "Taklung Rinpoche")

Ayu Lhamo had asked me to get a "khuntup" whatever that was. I decided to ask
for one when visiting Gotsang which had been one of the places in John’s book.
The bus from Leh left me at the side of the road where I could see away in the
distance Hemis Gompa. This is one of the main tourist attractions and an
important monastery. Up behind it, somewhere in the mountains was Gotsang where
a famous monk from the middle-ages, Gotsangpa, had practiced. 

Some passing locals had told me that there was a bus coming that would go to
Hemis so I loitered around. When I got on an important looking monk invited me
to sit next to him on the crowded bus, hudging over to make room. He didn’t
have much English and I could only say a few words in Ladakhi so the
conversation was a bit sparse. He noticed I was wearing mala beads and asked if
I was a meditator. I put my hands in the zazen posture and mimed not doing
anything – the easiest mime that there is! He said that I should stay in the
monastery with them rather than find a guest house. 

When the bus arrived he sprang up and produced a big bunch of keys and started
throwing out instructions to lots of younger monks who beetled off to do his
bidding. Two of them picked up my bag and asked me to follow them. We got to a
room that looked like someone was staying there already. I had become very
tired on the journey and wasn’t really thinking straight. If I had've been, I
would have worked out that this was the senior monk’s own room! The penny
dropped the next morning. I felt pretty embarrassed! 

Next day I set out for Gotsang. It was madness really since the ME symptoms
were pretty bad and digestive rioting had eroded my sleep. I would climb the
steep trail and rest by turns. It became a bit of an epic and after several
hours I was resting more than I was walking. At last I made it to the little
white gompa in the Himalayas. Producing John’s book to show them had an amazing
effect. They saw a picture of Shakyashri on the cover and went bananas, taking
turns to hold the book on their heads and pogo up and down! I couldn’t believe
my eyes. 

![Shakya Shri](/assets/images/pilg1/shakyashri.jpg)
{: class="half"}
###### Shakya Shri

When they calmed down they ushered me inside to where an English speaking monk
was working at printing sacred texts. Tea was brought and people crowded
around. After a wee magic show people left us to talk. While I explained about
John, the book and everything he calmly kept printing from a woodcut. There was
a smudge so he couldn’t use that piece and had to throw it away. He gave it to
me to look at. By this time I had learned some of the Tibetan alphabet and
tried to sound out a few words. Even if I got it right I didn’t understand what
they meant! After I got through a few words he joined in and whizzed through a
few lines in that deep-voiced Tibetan chant that they do. I realised that he
wasn’t looking at the text and when he finished I asked him if he had memorised
it. "Of course, we all have" he said gesturing not at the scrap of paper I was
holding but at the entire wall of the room which held a bookcase containing
what looked like thousands of wood-block printed books. They get together
periodically to chant the whole thing. It is just expected that as part of
their training they memorise the whole of the Tangyur and Kangyur. 

Deeply impressed we went on to talk about the khuntup that Ayo Lhamo had
mentioned. He said "follow me" and took me on a tour of the place. There was
one room in which I felt an enormously powerful atmosphere. There was a mat
with some clothes propped up in a little pyramid. He explained that it was
where a recently deceased lama had spent twelve years in meditation! There were
goosebumps and tingles as my mind played tricks on me, perhaps I hadn’t yet
recovered from the walk up to the place, but oh my Lord it was a funny feeling.
Down and down windy stairs we went until he started burrowing in an ancient
alter. I think we must have been way underground by that point. He produced a
little square of folded paper with inked designs, stitching and wax on it. He
told me that it was a "khuntup", that it would bring me good luck and
protection. I should wrap it in blue cloth, keep it with me and not let it get
wet. 

It is in my wallet still!

