---
title: About
banner-title: About Hughie
layout: default
permalink: /about/
---

![selfie Hughie 2022 June](/assets/images/faves/selfie202207.jpg) {:
class='half'}

Hughie is also-known-as:  Hugh, Cháng Kè, Sonam Wangchuk, Hugle, Spuge, Hugely,
Ivor (Biggun), Shugi, Shugs, Jadu, Mr Irrelevant, Psaikido (there's more..)  


Born in 1964 in Merseyside to a third generation Irish immigrant, Catholic
family, Hughie writes and flies kites. In his youth he was a performer, playing
in bands, doing juggling, acting, magic and stunts. He worked in New Circus as
it was then called. He busked and performed in Europe and the UK for around ten
years in the late 80s to early 90s. A serious fall while performing a stunt
during a rehearsal for Snapdragon Circus in 1991, left him with PTSD. The
illness gradually morphed into ME/CFS which was eventually diagnosed in 2001.
After the accident, Hughie went into IT. He's made many
[websites](/pages/pix/portfolio.html) and considered himself a 'full-stack web
developer' until the illness stopped him working altogether in 2018. He taught
guitar on and off, for many years, he started playing when he was nine. He also
went into Buddhism and attended over 40 week long zen intensive meditation
retreats, mostly with the [Western Chan
Fellowship](https://westernchanfellowship.org). He was a senior student of the
late, great [John
Crook](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Crook_(ethologist)). He went on
pilgrimage to Ladakh and the main Buddhist sites in India and Nepal. This trip
is written up in [Pilgrimage - Mahabodhi
Moonlight](/pages/prose/pilgrimage.html). He has also done two pilgrimages in
China, visiting many of the original Chan temples and important locations. He
ran a meditation group for twenty years and has undergone a three month silent
retreat. He made an album called [Mantrasphere](/mantrasphere/). He has carved
many [mantra stones](/pages/pix/stones.html), learning the ancient craft at
Lamayuru Gompa in Ladakh. He has written two volumes of poetry, [Yarn](/yarn/)
and [Sunshine & Shadow](/sun/). He is a 'Double Triple Master' at Revolution
Club38, a group of fanatical quad-line kite fliers.

Hughie can be contacted at hughie (at) hugle.co.uk.
