--- 
title: cliff rescue 
layout: post 
category: personal 
---

This is how not to take your mates climbing. Jeez, one of the worst days out
ever was when I took Peewee and Katie to Swanage. At the time, back in 1990, I
was pretty experienced taking folks out on their first day on a real crag. I
had been a guide on mountain walking holidays, I'd done loads of wild
adventures, what could go wrong? Looking at the guide book when we got to the
beginner's area, I looked for a good starting climb. There were blimmin' tons
of groups all over this pretty small area. It didn't look like it would be any
fun, so I thought "why not try this more exciting looking one?" Mistake!

The three starred climb was a bit away from the heaving and noisy crowd. The
guide said to ab down from some stakes over a grassy cliff above the sea. We
found the stakes. We set up. Not wanting to send my girlfriend, Katie, on a sea
cliff abseil as her introductory move, I reckoned I'd lower her off. She was
supposed to go over the edge, down a ways and then swing onto a ledge near the
base, above the waves. We couldn't see what the conditions were like, but, you
know, the guide didn't make any kind of a deal out of it, and..er..there have
to be more excuses, but..

Anyway, over she went and all was well for a few minutes until the rope started
to wear a groove in the grassy edge. If you were abseiling, the rope would be
relatively still, but lowering a person down was a different thing. A thing I
hadn't thought about. The rope got more and more stiff, jammed down between
some rocks too, and eventually, stuck fast. "Oh bugger!" thought I. "Ok, we'll
just have to pull her back up and think again." The more we pulled, the more
stuck it got until she could not go either up nor down. Swinging gently back
and forth above the waves. Sea gulls crying on the breeze. Such a lovely day!

Peewee ran around onto a headland that overlooked the scene and could see her
dangling. Long blonde hair very visible. Apparently she wasn't that far above
the waves but was out of reach of the cliff that was overhanging. Much more
overhung than I had realised from the description. He shuttled communications
back and forth as best he could.

Around about then some guys came along on their own day out, and one guy said
that he had just done a mountain rescue course. We could use a second stake and
arrange the ropes so they had some slack and make a clever pulley. He rigged it
up and held it together with a little prusik knot. We were supposed to be able
to yank her up with the extra purchase the pulley gave. So, three or four of us
started pulling on this rig. She went up a few feet but the strain on the rope
was immense then..

The stake moved.

Just a few inches, but we were yanking the thing out of its moorings. We could
all go flying off into the sea should it give way altogether. When it moved we
all turned to look at it and everything went very, very quiet. Mountain rescue
guy beat a retreat and off they buggered to make a call to the coastguards! 

Meanwhile, time had passed. Some twenty or thirty minutes dangling on a rope is
not fun. The legs get starved of blood and go numb and tingly. You get cold.
She wasn't right in the warmth of the sun. Sea cliffs can have mean moods too.
Inside of very small areas you can have one bit that is just all loveliness and
butterflies, and only a few feet away it can be terrifying and elemental,
dangerous and cold. She really might be in trouble here.

Some guys on a fishing boat had realised that there was trouble. They had
sailed in close to the cliff to find out if they could help. Peewee ran around
relaying messages. The fishermen said that if I could lower her down just a bit
they could get her onto the boat. I tried to undo the pulley system but the
little prusik knot wouldn't give up. Too much strain on it see. I looked for
something to cut it with in my rucksack but couldn't find anything that would do
the job. Starting to feel a stronger pull towards freaking out by now, I ran
around the grassy banks at the top of the cliffs looking for something to cut
that bloody knot with. After a minute or two I found a fragment of broken glass
and ran back to the loose stake. I reattached myself to the system and cut the
knot free. She went down a few feet and stuck again as the stake yobbled in the
soil. Gulp! There was a loud bang as the boat crashed into the cliff. It had
come right in and on the roll of a big wave had rammed the rocks so that it
could get in close enough to grab Katie. One fisherman dashed out of the little
boathouse with a machete and grabbing Katie by the ankle as she dangled, swung
it and severed the rope, and caught her! What a hero!

I think I remember Peewee jumping up and down and relating all this to me as I
slumped back onto the grass. Maybe it's just my memory enhanced a bit, but I
imagine I actually saw the scene, but of course, that can't really be true. I
can still see it though!

Right about then the coastguard showed up in a Landrover. They told us what was
going on as they had radio contact with the boat. They would take me and Peewee
back to the dock and meet the fishermen with Katie there. Apparently, she was
fine! We got what gear remained into our bags and got into the back. They
haired off a quite a lick. Talking about this with Peewee recently, he reminded
me not to forget the bit about us nearly getting chucked out of the back of the
Landy. I nearly forgot that bit, and it wouldn't be here without the reminder.
Anyhow, the tyres they had on were not fit for normal roads. They went too fast
around a corner and spun it. I mean, right when we were starting to relax and
babbling our versions of the story to each other, high on adrenaline, the
Landrover violently spun a three quarter turn. The back was open and we hurtled
towards it, grabbing on at the last moment to avoid being thrown onto the road.

More sedately, and after some apologies, they delivered us to the dockside.
Lovely Katie was all smiles when we were reunited. I wondered if she might be
holding the machete as we walked up. After that, I always made sure I had a little knife with me. You know, anytime
I went out with a rope that is.

So, wherever you are Katie, sorry!

![Katie on her bus](/assets/images/circus/katieonthebus.jpg)
