---
bannerTitle: kites 
title: kite thoughts 
---

#### Background

For family, friends, club38 folks, Dharma brothers and sisters and anyone
interested, I thought I'd bring together some thoughts about my adventures with
[Club38](#club38).  

I know I don't look it, but I have an invisible disability -
[ME/CFS](https://meassociation.org.uk/what-is-me-cfs/) and
[PTSD](https://www.nhs.uk/mental-health/conditions/post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd/overview/)
following an accident in 1991. It means that I have chronic pain and
debilitating exhaustion. There are a ton of other symptoms, one of the main
ones is Post Exertional Malaise (PEM). An hour of activity will trigger a few
hours of wipe out. Sometimes that wipe out goes on and on and becomes a crash.
ME cycles around relapse and remission as many chronic illnesses do. In 2018 I
had the classic Country & Western nightmare when I lost my job, marriage, house
and dog all in one fell swoop. (I still miss the dog!) Landing back with my old
mam and eldest brother, I set about rebuilding after a complete collapse.  

First off I went on a three month meditation retreat. This triggered lots of
writing ([Yarn](/yarn), [Sunshine & Shadow](/sun)). Next, I tried to improve my
fitness. One of the challenges of long term disability is to try and keep a
base level of fitness going. 'Use it or lose it'! I was finding a daily walk
harder and harder and so started thinking about alternatives. Yoga gave too
much PEM. Tai-Chi and Chi-Gung I found boring. I used to be a juggler and was
into kites for a bit too. 

![5 rings](/images/circus/5rings.jpg)

Flying two string 'stunt' kites had been great fun and I wondered if things had
moved on since the last time I had flown them. Turns out there are FOUR string
kites. I was intrigued. It looked like it might combine lots of my interests.



#### Club38

[Club38](https://revkites.com/club-38/) is a private facebook group you can
join when you buy a [Revolution](https://revkites.com) kite. [Joe
Hadzicki](https://about.me/joe.hadzicki) and his two brothers Jim and David,
developed the quad kite. Four strings enable a kite to move forward and
backward, side to side and to spin. After marketing the kites for a while Joe
noticed that people often did not get the full fun out of it. It's quite hard
to learn. He came up with a series of challenges that teach you the moves.
Logically set out, the levels progress through basics to advanced and then
combination moves. You film yourself flying a pattern, submit it to the group
and if it passes you get the information about the next level. He has a special
super-power, it is mentoring! He's an excellent
[teacher](https://www.youtube.com/user/jhadzicki) too!

All this was just right for me. Something new, difficult and interesting that
helped with my fitness. If I got my rest schedule right I could go for a
session and forget everything unconnected with how to fly that kite.



#### Kaitodo

Putting all this together the sessions gradually morphed into a kind of
'practice' in the sense of meditation and mindfulness. I half-jokingly made it
into a 'way' I called ['Kaitodo'](/kites/kaitodo/), the Way of the Kite!  

It was doing me good to go through the levels the same as anyone else without
them knowing anything about the disability thing. It helped me feel more
normal. I'm sure everyone has their challenges that they keep quiet about. I
wanted to make my situation more public because the whole kiting thing has been
so much more than just a fun little distraction or a hobby. It has been my main
way of keeping going through the difficulties, through the pandemic lockdowns
and everything.

The folks at Revolution Kites, Joe in particular, and in the club38 group, have
been very helpful to me. This is to thank them on the day after I made the
[42nd](https://youtu.be/yQ9607R3b3Q) passed submission and gained the title of
'Double Triple Master', the first in the UK!


#### Visualisations

The fourteen patterns of the Club38 programme get quite involved and I found
myself struggling to remember the details. Brainfog is an issue. I used
[visualisation](https://www.meditationexpert.com/martial-arts/sports-visualization-techniques.html)
at first just to remember, then to have something to focus on rather than
ruminate on negative things. It seems that it has also had a beneficial effect
on the learning process too. 

#### Movement

Because I wanted some training effect I started thinking about how the body
moves in relation to the kite. The stances needed and how to move between them.
It felt a lot like jiu-jitsu which I used to love back in college days. If the
wind is strong it actually helps an awful lot to have good movement. It stops
you getting pulled over so much for a start! The combination of applying
mindfulness to a martial arts stance in the context of studying the wind and
the movement of the kite all came together in moments of real joy.

I recommend it :)

![Kilkenny](/images/kites/kilkenny-hc-2022-07-m14.jpg)

