---
bannerTitle: kites
title: Kaitodo 
---


### Kaitodo - The Way of the Kite

To bring the mind, the body and the universe into balance is an excellent goal.
To journey towards such a goal in the hope that it will alleviate the suffering
of all beings makes it truly noble. The practitioner can take up any art or
skill with such a motivation and thus transform it into a 'way' or 'do'. The
flyer of kites can become a practitioner of the Way of the Kite, 'Kaitodo', or
more properly 'Takedo', 'take' being the Japanese word for 'kite', but I'm not
a Japanese speaker and prefer the funnier term. Anyway..


From the first idea of going flying to returning home and stowing things away,
the flyer practices total presence. To be inwardly attentive and present to the
facts as they appear in this very moment. On travelling to the flying place the
flyer notices the weather conditions, their own state and the way things are in
everything encountered. Their mind is silent. This is not the silence of no
thoughts, but the silence of no reactions. Big difference!


On first stepping on to the flying place, the flyer takes a moment to allow all
the senses to respond. Noticing as much as they can without strain, instincts
and experience are allowed to function so that an appropriate spot can be
found. Appropriate for today, not yesterday! Kite gear is set down. All
directions are observed. All concerns of times other than now are dropped.
Whatever anxieties or entanglements that continue to proliferate are noticed in
the same way as the wind direction. It simply is. They simply are.


Having taken into account all relevant factors, a direction is chosen and the
strings are laid out, kite set up and all readiness is made. The pre-flight
check is done from the inside out, meaning first the way the body feels then
how the mood is, how the mind is, the environment, the kite, the sky, the wind,
the everything. Total presence is strongly re-established internally and
externally, near and far, gross and subtle.


Lift off!


The kite flies the flyer when the flyer has 'no mind', the 'mushin' of the
Samurai. Intention and thought are present but as a part of the whole. The way
the wind is right now, how the kite responds, how the flyer responds.


However it has been, wild or tight, elating or dissappointing, when everything
is packed away, the flyer looks in the direction of the wind and takes a moment
to offer some gratitude. Somehow circumstances have come about where there has
been time and opportunity to do this brilliant thing, how fantastic! The flyer
turns to the other three directions and to give a moment of gratitude to them
too. The gear is picked up. The ground is scanned for anything left behind. The
flyer departs.


![kite](https://www.publicdomainpictures.net/pictures/260000/velka/sunrise-boy-flying-kite.jpg)


<div class='center-quote'>

the breezes at play  
self-concern dropped  
there is no other moment  

</div>
