---
bannerTitle: blog - ideas
title: neovim set up
type: blogs/ideas
date: 2021-11-06
---


If you are a linux person and like vi/vim/neovim, here are some useful tricks.


##### Split up the config file
In neovim's config file:  

    ~/.config/nvim/init.vim

link to your own file:  

    so /[your path]/init.vim


in that file source a series of files eg:  

    source $HOME/dotfiles/neovim/10.main.vimrc
    source $HOME/dotfiles/neovim/20.plugins.vimrc
    source $HOME/dotfiles/neovim/30.keyMappings.vimrc

Working on shorter files is a bit easier I find.

##### git
These files can be stored in git. Setting up on a new machine is then a matter of having your ssh private key so that you can link to a git repo on github or bitbucket or wherever.  

Here's mine on [bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/psaikido/dotfiles/src/master/neovim/).  

Other config files can be stored in a similar way.  
In .bashrc or .bash_aliases you can alias vi to nvim:  

    alias vi='nvim'

So that we have the neovim loveliness on typing good old 'vi'.

##### Plugins
I use vundle and keep a comment on how to set it up in the [plugins.vimrc](https://bitbucket.org/psaikido/dotfiles/src/master/neovim/20.plugins.vimrc) file:  

    "git clone https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim.git ~/.config/nvim/bundle/Vundle.vim
    set rtp+=~/.config/nvim/bundle/Vundle.vim/

The plugins that I'm into are nerdtree, NeoSolarized (dark) and fugitive. Amazing work there, so useful!


##### root
Once everything is sweet you can make a root login use the same config. It's awkward to jump back to defaults after getting used to the grace and splendour of your plugins.  
Source your own config files as above from  

    /root/.config/nvim/init.vim

Make a symlink to your dotfiles directory in /root and Bob's yur uncle.
