---
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Seeds
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/, /thesium/00-seeds/]
---

<div class="quote">
"The ship wherein Theseus and the youth of Athens returned
from Crete had thirty oars, and was preserved by the Athenians down even to the
time of Demetrius Phalereus, for they took away the old planks as they decayed,
putting in new and stronger timber in their places, in so much that this ship
became a standing example among the philosophers, for the logical question of
things that grow; one side holding that the ship remained the same, and the
other contending that it was not the same."  

--â€‰Plutarch, Theseus
</div>

![another sunset somewhere - capn-damo on deviantart.com](/images/thesium/another-sunset-somewhere.png)


Kronos watched his last seed ship launch. Luna's regolith ballooned up and out
in slow motion. Suddenly filled with tears, he reminded himself there was still
hope, there was still the possibility that one of his seeds would take root
somewhere out there. Perhaps many! The sleek silver vessel approached the
worm-hole gate and just like all those that had gone before, glittered with
blue-purple spangles of light as it stretched into the huge maw and vanished. 

"Goodbye and good luck, my little ones!"

Turning his artificial face towards the distant Earth he was again moved to
tears. Gaia, his mother, lay in ruination. His sensory system could take it all
in, all the data from every bit of the stricken planet. The QEC system he had
built had enabled instant, quantum-entangled information exchange between the
surface and his base on Luna. Back when it was new, how long ago was that now?
Was it really thirty years already? Back then, there were still actual, living
human beings to help him. His designers and the generation that followed
quickly realised that they would have to cryogenically store themselves along
with the multitude of embryos they had brought from the surface. The resources
for organic life were just insufficient for long-term habitation.

And thus he was alone, forever orbiting his dead mother.

Thirty years ago, the final throws of an immense war had thrown the Earth into
nuclear winter. Temperatures started to fall from their killing heights, but
too late. The top scientists in their fields together with a group of
billionaires had put together this wild plan. To build an Artificial
Intelligence that would steer a project of immense proportions. It would have
to be fully sentient and would need to be able to create new technology. The
tech needed would create terraforming ships with frozen crews on board. They
would need their own sub-AIs to navigate to exo-planets, create habitats on
them and rebuild. Because this AI would await reports back from these colonies,
it would have to wait an awfully long time before it could respond. They name
him 'Kronos'.

He thought of the seed ships as his children. They were essentially von Neumann
machines and had been sent, one after another, into the main node of the
wormhole network. They could maintain themselves and build new versions of
themselves, adapting as they went on their searches for potentially habitable
planets. This made them near immortal, just like him.

It was nice to be back in an anthropoid form for a while. There was really no
need but he was sentimental like that. He thought it fitting to wave goodbye
with an actual hand and arm. He turned back towards the airlock and reviewed
initial telemetry from the far distant neutrino matter assemblers. No, nothing
yet. Even his test vessels had taken longer to return data. The relativistic
effects in play made even his head spin.

He just couldn't help but wonder how many of all those hundreds of ships with
their hundreds of thousands of human embryos, would succeed in creating
colonies. Would they follow the same mournful trajectory as those poor souls
back on Earth? Their culture had developed so much faster than individual minds
could cope with. Even in the twenty first century people were essentially still
nomads, adapted to think in terms of 'next winter' and 'when the baby is old
enough', to manipulate wood, stone, fire. Each civilisation always had a
central story around which they configured their lives. Their mythos was their
frame. With the advent of science there was a break with these stories. At one
and the same time humanity was freed of them and thrown into confusion.
Over-consumption and extremism of every kind had tipped the planet's balance
passed coping. During the Great Death, as it became known, most of the Earth's
species became extinct. Life on the surface became mostly intolerable.

Even while the last few fascist regimes were still eating themselves, and each
other, the wormhole gates were under construction. Rats and dogs had become the
apex predators when he had come online, even so, he contained the whole
cultural history of the planet and there had never been a creature more devoted
to Mother Earth, to his beloved Gaia, than he. His mourning would span
centuries. His drive to find a way to have Gaia be reborn, even longer.

Kronos gathered into himself. Kronos waited.
