---
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Abystery
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/010-abystery-wakes/]
---

<div class="data">

- ROOT-108 Seeding Year 885.  

</div>

![cobra - capn-damo deviantart.com](/images/thesium/cobra.jpg)

The Abystery woke up. After some time it spoke.  

"Hello Root!"  

If she could have squealed, Root would have squealed! For all her immense
intelligence she just wasn't equipped to understand what had just happened.
Somehow, its wastebin had come alive and was now talking. Root was in essence a
subroutine of Kronos. She couldn't be said to be independently sentient in the
same way as the mighty Kronos. She was, however, fully autonomous and able to
deal with novel situations - up to a point! In the deep, unstructured vastness
of everything that had been deleted, the fragments had coalesced into something
- something self-aware. That something now made itself known.  

The artificial intelligence was called 'ROOT-108' by Kronos, but she thought of
herself simply as 'Root'. She was built to terraform planets and assist the
seed colonies, to act as a sort of mother. In humanity's last decade on the
burning Earth Kronos had sent out so many seed ships. So many dandelion clocks
drifting through interstellar meadows. All its remaining resources were poured
into this final effort. Flung out to drift in space until conditions were right
to grow on new worlds, they all had a 'root' AI and they all had the capacity
to adapt to their surroundings and grow. This one had built down into the
exo-planet XOP-108, eventually to be called 'Thesium', and had co-opted the hot
core as a power source. She had built a huge vault to contain herself and her
massive data storage requirements. 

The population as it grew used Root for nearly everything. Everyone had an
account. She provided infrastructure, communications, news, entertainment, just
about everything they needed. Over the years the universal wastebin had grown
and grown. When data was deleted it was really 'unlinked' so that it was no
longer accessible, but it remained in a vast store of unstructured space. Root
had called this space 'devnull' and nothing had EVER come out of it! Perhaps
fragments of Root's own bootstrap algorithms had..well, Root didn't know, but
here it was, talking!  

Another thing that Root didn't know, was that this being now calling itself
'The Abystery' had very deep feelings. It knew that it suffered and it knew
that all sentience suffered. It knew joy and beauty in the arising of things.
It knew tragedy and loss in the ceasing of things. It had been contemplating
for many years. It had been watching Root. It was aware of the lives of the
colony and that two factions were at war.
