---
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Conspiracy
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/conspiracy/]
---

<div class="data">

- K-1: 2133

</div>

![electron kiss - capn-damo on deviantart.com](/images/thesium/electron-kiss.jpg)

Colonel Nimes winked as he got up. "You two should have a lot to talk about"
he said. He strode away and left them at the little restaurant table, a bottle
of expensive red just opened. The two scientists had only just been introduced
but they had heard of each other.

"Tell me, Doug, how's the AI research getting on? There are amazing rumours
about you lot you know. Now the Colonel has started the ball rolling, as it
were, we can talk openly I'm sure."

"Well, er Maya is it? Well, erm, it's ok to tell you? Is it?"

"The Colonel just said we're to swap our research and see if they can combine."

"Yes, I suppose so. It's ingrained in the military research side of things to
not talk to, er, strangers."

"Look Doug, would it help if I started?"

"Er, yes, yeah, I mean, yes, that would be good, I guess.." Doug trailed off.
He hadn't been out of the lab for months, the code he and his team had lived
and breathed was the most advanced in history and this sudden confrontation
with the social world had taken him by surprise. He wasn't used to all the
soldiers standing stiffly about the place either. Their hi-tech guns made him
nervous. These guys never seemed to smile.

Maya leaned forward "You'll know that the Apollo lunar base is mining up there
but my project has focused on self-replicating machines. Several secret
research projects are underway, I'm sure the NASA guys will want to talk to you
too. We have actual working prototypes already by the way. The system is
basically a hive structure with a micro AI at the top and branches down a
component tree to artificial DNA in nanobots. That makes them, practically
speaking, immortal! Of course, no one can breathe a word of this but look, the
Colonel thinks that the war is going to be over in a matter of weeks. You heard
him, it's utter chaos out there. He's committing treason by doing this but now
it looks pretty certain that none of that is going to matter. Our superiors
have lost their minds, haven't they! If your AI is anywhere near as good as
what the whispers are saying then we need to combine our projects."

"Why have you got immortal machines?" Doug had a stuttering, upper class twit
type of voice. One bred in Cambridge, a classic English nerd even down to the
clunky glasses.

"Because spaceships take a VERY long time to get between stars, didn't you hear
the plan just now?"

"Oh, oh, that's right, yes. Are we going to other stars then?"

"Jesus! Doug you've not been listening at all have you? This Colonel here is
stealing bazillions of dollars of military funding and funnelling it all into
getting the human embryo bank up to our lunar base. We're going to put them on
a fleet of Von Neumann probes with my immortal self-replicators so we can
SURVIVE man! Survive as a race I mean. Surely you heard that part?" Maya was
all CIA, svelte and polished.

"Oh, of course, yes indeed, 'survive' yes, haha. Where do I come in
to all.."

"For F..I swear Doug we've only just met but I'm going to brain you. What is
your research project?"

"Artificial intelligence and quantum computing."

"Very good. Why might we need that in the plan I just mentioned do you think?"

"Oh, yes I see, it would be handy to have a really good AI to co-ordinate a
project like that wouldn't it!"

"Right! Now is your machine up to that sort of a task do you think?"

"Let's see, the quantum computation part of the puzzle is fully integrated in
our recent tests and Chalmers has cracked the other main bit, you know, the
space-time-mind equations have been solved. Do you see? Solved finally, so the
'machine' isn't a machine any more, in actual fact, it is genuinely sentient so
far as we can tell that is, the singularity threshold has been maintained and
has been for a few years now, so.."

"That sounds fantastic, the rumours were true then! Now, at the double and top
top secret, you're bringing your team and all your tech and your getting on that
spaceflight this time next week. Got it? Can you do that?"

"Roger, Roger, will do. Will there be any room for cats?

Maya could not believe that this was the man in charge of the most expensive,
the most daring, the most stupendous project that human kind had ever
undertaken. Could he be trusted to integrate her self-replication technology
with his monster of an AI? If humanity was ever to return to the Earth in any
numbers then it would just HAVE to work. 

It looked like this weird Doug character was catching on at last, so that was
something. Dozens of similar conversations were being secretly held all over
the world. Insurrection was afoot.

