---
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Insurrection
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/insurrection/]
---

<div class="data">

- K-1: 2133

</div>

![chip - capn-damo on deviantart.com](/images/thesium/insurrection-chip.jpg)

Doug had been so wrapped up in the details of his own project that he had lost
site of the big picture. This had always been his weakness. He kicked himself
for coming over as such a clutz with Maya. He had been going for a "devil's
advocate" sort of questioning but had ended up looking clueless. Never mind,
there was nothing he could do about that now.

Doug could see, along with most everyone else, that as warfare had gotten more
extreme, everything had started collapsing. The leaders were found to be next to
useless. They had got to the top of their trees by saying the right things to
the right people, but now they had to DO the right things they were found to be
bogged down in ideology and thus frozen and inflexible.

He was on top of his own security at Brain Labs. It had taken precisely three
lines of code to reconfigure their security system. Everyone above level 5
access where booted off. Simple!

He got on the kryptokom channel and called 'chipmonk99'. "How's the
in..in..insurrection at your end? We've locked out management here."

"Yeah baby! We've got internet4's Western backbone yesterday. We've got the NASA
boys and Apollo base but are still waiting to hear about the embryo bank." 

"You have to tell me that NSA have been kicked?"

"First thing we did. In fact all the spooks should be out of the picture."

Despite all the qualms about making such a move, it had turned out to be a
simple thing. A few of the key people, a couple of systems engineers here, a
Chief Technical Officer there, and hey presto, their operation to commandeer
spaceflight and a hand full of the planet's most advanced research projects was
in the bag - nearly.

A few days later Doug heard that the embryo bank was going on another Leviathan
rocket launching from Kazakstan. He only had to concentrate on getting his rig
and his people to Florida. No one had slept for too long and things were getting
fraught. The plane was all lined up but getting to the runway was the problem.
The rig had to be kept supercool, not far from absolute zero in fact. The whole
shebang just about fitted into a container lorry, power supply and all, but the
lab had been surrounded by soldiers and they couldn't drive it out.

The clock kept ticking.

Someone must've blabbed, or maybe management had figured it out, but these were
real soldiers with real guns and they meant to stop them stealing the AI. Doug's
people were co-ordinating their own security in a standoff while Doug scrambled
to talk to Colonel Nimes.

"Theo, Theo, er Sir, is that you? There's two dozen chaps with big guns stopping
the lorry getting to the airport. Um, we're a bit stuck you see.."

"Ok understood. Sit tight, I've got some contacts over there and I'll get you
some help, don't worry. Out."

He heard shouting and some rifle fire after about half an hour but then a loud
chunk chunk sound came over the nearby hill. A massive helicopter swooped
towards them and slowed to a hover, thud thudding over the compound. Scooping up
his laptop, a shoulder bag and a cat box, he ran out to meet it. A group of
soldiers, apparently identical to the guys outside, stood beside their dangling
abseil ropes. They got to work attaching the container and at the last minute
shoved Doug, his staff of fifteen and themselves into the container along with
the AI. Everyone was cheek by jowl as they took off. Bullets could be heard
slamming into the metal box as they swung up into the Cambridgeshire afternoon.
Doug's head swam with the scent of the young woman he was jammed up against. He
was more embarrased than afraid. "Gosh, so, erm, it's Gemma isn't it?"

There were no further incidents and they all slept soundly on the trans-atlantic
flight. They met more opposition at Cape Canaveral though. Nimes and Maya met
them off the plane and took them and the container on a fast road trip
accompanied by a platoon of GIs in humvees. At the base, small arms fire filled
the air. The soldiery that protected them as they boarded were firing at anyone
that even might stop them. Doug, Maya and Colonel Nimes strapped themselves into
seats. There were just over a thousand people on board. From Doug's little
plastic crate, his cat 'Beenie' mewed pitifully.

As they cleared the tower and the ferocious G-forces mounted higher and higher,
they each one knew that this Leviathan X rocket was a life-raft and they
were leaving a sinking ship. It was a good thing that the whole launch and
flight was an automated process for every last one on board was panicking.
