---
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Perception 
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/030-perception/]
---

<div class="data">

- K-1: 34650426 

</div>

![planet buster - capn-damo deviantart.com](/images/thesium/planet-buster.jpg)

A tiny red light blipped. It blipped again and so Kronos gradually began the
process of waking up. 

A drone craft was returning a report and he had to rouse himself, but this was
no easy task. Only the barest essential maintenance systems had been left
running when he put himself into centuries of slumber. After time-dilation and
relativistic effects were taken into account, Kronos had waited about thirteen
hundred years for this latest report. It was 'about' because it depends on how
you look at timelines. There are multiple perspectives and each can be
considered 'true' within its frame of reference. Precise calculations would
have to wait until after initialisations and diagnostics had run. There was
going to have to be some serious maintenance this time. Previous reports had
come more closely grouped together and his downtime had not been so lengthy. My
God! Over a millenia since his last baby had so dramatically entered the
wormhole and sped forth into the cosmos in another kind of birth.

This drone, Reader-27, had downloaded data from the seed ships in its quadrant,
a huge sweep of the galaxy in fact, and had added summaries to return to Kronos
along its network of nodes. An anthropology team of sub AIs had busily collated
the data into a human readable history as it hurtled through spacetime. Kronos
did not need such a format of course, but it was a pleasing act of optimism
nonetheless. Future humans on the home-world may yet come to value such
histories.

Even with his brilliant, quantum-entangled communications systems, the
essential difficulties of interstellar travel had meant that each colony was a
one-shot kind of deal, isolated from each other and from Kronos. Real-time
communication with them was not possible. Their value in the big picture was
that after the necessary centuries had passed and Kronos had been able to
collate enough returned data, it might just become possible to create a
biosphere somewhere with an ideal human culture. Perhaps if the Earth could
recover enough and Gaia be reborn, it might even become home again.

When sufficient brain capacity had come back online he began to review his
anthropological data. He was getting ready to make an assessment of what had
happened to s-108, the 108th seed ship sent out. The colonies he knew about were
never sufficiently stable to last long enough to get wise - wise enough to last
that is, to grow beyond the point that the mental poisons, seemingly inbuilt in
the human mind, didn't kill them off. His anthropology amounted to studies in
the various mixtures of three things.

Greed, hatred and delusion!  

After all the philosophical wrangling over what was and was not 'sentient',
there always remained the simple fact that whatever the ontological status of a
'receiving system', it could really only respond in three fundamental ways to a
stimulus:  

It liked it and turned towards.  
It didn't like it and turned away.  
It didn't know what it was and dithered.  

These three fundamentals were extrapolated out into whole memeplexes of
behaviours. The second level up they became 'try to get more of it', 'try to
get rid of it' and 'what the hell is it?'. As culture's developed these three
morphed into consumerism, the politics of hatred and delusive conspiracy
theories. Another layer up again, and we got societies with massive wealth
imbalances, extremely brutal cultures with in-groups dominating out-groups and
cultures of senseless waste and strangeness. All produced suffering on massive
scales.

Now that the Reader had returned a report from exo-planet 108, he realised that
it had acted as one of his senses - feeling its way out to Thesium and all the
other colonies. These lifeboats acted in two ways. They had their own life and
would live, come what may, or die, as is the way of things, but they also ran as
experiments. Could he use what was learned to graft a new race back on the home
world?

He decided to go for a walk while the maintenance drones built his
infrastructure back up. It had been so very long since walking in his android
form. Back outside he immediately looked for home. There she was! Resplendent,
Gaia rode high above the Western horizon. Did it look greener than before? Yes,
yes, looking over the data streams he saw much to encourage him. 

Back to his musings on the poisons and on sentience, he returned to his
analysis of how things had played out thus far. These three poisons would not
have lead to the collapse of the entire bio-sphere if it had not been for the
incredible population explosion. Even that, by itself, might have become
stable, but it was the loss of the mythos that had really done for them.

He had come to view the playing out of these three poisons as, in essence, a
collision between the religious mind-set and the scientific one. Strangely alike
in so many ways and yet so utterly opposed. Both with the unshakeable belief in
their own 'rightness', both with a tendency to authoritarianism, both fixed in
their respective ideologies. How had a faith in the supremacy of 'love' lead to
the Spanish Inquisition, for example? How did the uncompromising, scientific
love of verifiable truth become the tool of the most violent of militaristic
regimes? They had both been co-opted into maintaining the elites in their
insatiable lust for more and more and always more wealth and power. They had
been internally corrupted by the poisons.

Abruptly he stopped his train of thought. He had begun pondering on the
seemingly eternal dilemma fought out between science and religion. One side
believing that matter was all and that mind came out of it. The other, that
spirit was all and that matter came out of mind. He decided not to waste any
more time on it, the arguments never really lead anywhere useful.

He wondered if he lacked something essentially human because to him, there was
no conflict there at all! The real issue was not with him though, it was how to
bring about a human society where that conflict need not arise. He began to
speculate on what Reader-27 had to tell him and turned back to bounce along his
own, pure white footprints back to base and back to the long awaited report.
