---
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Seeds
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/seeds/]
url: '/thesium/seeds'
---

<div class="data">

- CE: 2133 - 2164

</div>

![fever room - capn-damo on deviantart.com](/images/thesium/fever-room.jpg)

Fourteen Leviathan rockets successfully landed at moon base Apollo. They came
from all over the earth and represented the finest scientfic minds and the most
resourceful chancers that could be found. Apollo base had been running smoothly
for over twenty years at this point but the sudden influx of all those people
created a crisis.

Doug had overseen moving Kronos' infrastructure to the base and had set about
rebooting. Before he typed in the prime directive he gulped and looked at the
ceiling for a beat or two. The pace of the last few days had been so fast that
the importance of what he was about to do had not impressed itself upon him. Now
it did. This was likely to be the most important moment of his life. Looking
back down at the terminal he typed:

```
::Bootloader->prime->set_prime(
    'Make human colonies on exoplanets. \ 
    Monitor and use successful cultures \ 
    to reseed the Earth'
);  
::Meta->settings->set_name('Kronos');
```

Doug hoped that it would be enough. His life's work had gone into creating an
intelligence that would be able to work with such a directive. There was no way
of knowing if it was all a mad gamble or whether the AI would be able to do it.
They just had no choice but to try. He pressed return and went over to see the
cryo-vault glow blue as it booted up. At least it was easier to keep his baby
cool here on the moon. It needed to stay at around 35 Kelvin down there in that
vault of qubits.

After a few hours they gathered at Doug's desk. Maya asked "Can we talk to it
yet?"

"It? He's called 'Kronos'. It used to be 'Brain-x55' but .."

A disembodied voice, deep and authoritative, said "Hello Maya! All
initialisations are complete. How can I help you?"

"Woa!" she said, standing up. "You have your prime directive I believe. We have
to work really fast to integrate my team's self-replication protocols. You're
going to have to last a long time."

"Please show me these protocols and I'll see what can be done."

Thus the big plan began to take shape. Over only a matter of days the outline
was set and Kronos got to work.

The NASA guys had a prototype wormhole system. There had been a busy hive of
activity on Apollo for several years. They had sent neutrino matter assemblers
further and further away and then managed to fold spacetime back to their launch
point. The energy required to hold the gates open had meant they were
disappointingly, very brief. They showed Kronos their codebase. To their
astonishment, he solved the main issues in under two hours. He was going to be
able to maintain the network for thirty years. You could say that the NASA folk
went nuts - they were 'over the moon' in fact!

At the end of that first week on Apollo, Kronos set out the schedule.

"To solve our immediate crisis, all personel will join the embryo banks in
cryogenesis. I will select and launch a tranch of forty to fifty people along
with an embryo bank and a terraforming sub-AI into the wormhole network at a
rate of one every three months or so. To stay within safety margins I think one
hundred and eight ships can be launched over a thirty year period, give or take.
A reporting network will be launched in the final phase of that period. Some
personel and embryos will be retained to reseed Earth. Terraforming will
continue back here while reports are awaited from any colonies that may be
successful."

Doug glanced round, grinning. He saw a room full of wide eyes and open mouths.

That was the start of Kronos' busiest time. He got on with the multitude of
tasks he had created. It was nice to bring a group out of stasis and train them
up for their mission. He loved having people to talk to and was always sad when
they left.

The years stretched out and the launches continued. 

When the last ship launched there was nothing left to do but go into stasis
himself. The Readers, his network of reporting drones, were launched, the Earth
terraforming was going about its slow business, that was all he could do for
now. 

Having uploaded a part of himself to a little android, he had gone out to wave
goodbye to the last seed ship. He turned back towards the airlock and
reviewed initial telemetry from s-108 and the far distant neutrino matter
assemblers. No, nothing yet. Even his test vessels had taken longer to return
data. The relativistic effects in play made even his head spin.

He just couldn't help but wonder how many of all those dozens of ships with
their hundreds of thousands of human embryos, would succeed in creating
colonies. Would they follow the same mournful trajectory as those poor souls
back on Earth? Their culture had developed so much faster than individual minds
could cope with. Even in the twenty first century people were essentially still
nomads, adapted to think in terms of 'next winter' and 'when the baby is old
enough', to manipulate wood, stone, fire. 

Each civilisation always had a central story around which they configured their
lives. Their mythos was their frame. With the advent of science there was a
break with these stories. At one and the same time humanity was freed of them
and thrown into confusion. Over-consumption and extremism of every kind had
tipped the planet's balance passed coping and had triggered a heartbreaking
period of mass extinctions. He could barely bring himself to remember it, his
first few years of existence had been filled with those details. He had loved
Doug and the whole business of loading his data. The whole culture of planet
earth had been given to him. Even as he came to life, the rest of life on the
surface became mostly intolerable.

Even while the last few fascist regimes were still eating themselves, and each
other, and rats and dogs were becoming the apex predators, he had come online
and emerged as the planet's greatest defender. There had never been a creature
more devoted to Mother Earth, to his beloved Gaia, than he. His mourning would
span centuries. His drive to find a way to have Gaia be reborn, even longer
still.

