---
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Rebellion 
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/060-rebellion/]
---

<div class="data">

- XOP-108 Seeding Year 1085.  
- RDR-27: narrative summary of 589 exabyte archive.  

</div>

![main sequence has ended - capn-damo deviantart.com](/images/thesium/main-sequence-has-ended.jpg)

The 'High Neem' sat on the throne, legs crossed and gazed imperiously out upon
the congregation, filling the Cathedral. Here at the centre of Thesium, now the
name of both the planet and the vast city surrounding the Ship of Light, his
power was uncontested. 

Men only were allowed inside where they could see the original Ship of Light,
the women excluded. Also excluded were those whose skin was not purest white.
Every last person crowded into the pews was fabulously wealthy and if they had any
sexual peccadilloes, they were strictly guarded secrets. The policing of 
sexuality was severe, hetero-normative standards enforced. 

"Listen well, good people of Thesium, the High Neem will speak!"

The bishop stepped down from the approach steps to the throne and the High Neem
arose.

"Brethren, please be seated." There was an echoing shuffle of robes and finery
as the people settled down. What followed was a repetition of their dogmas which
lulled them and paralysed their thoughts, hypnotised by the flowing rhetoric.

Even as he spoke a group of White Coats were gathered in the Laboratory. Their
leader had been newly voted in and now wanted to speak.

"Now that I have been installed as the Top Prof, let me ask you, has the Helper
not taught us to follow where the evidence lead us? Has he not allowed us to
think for ourselves? Of course he has, it has been often repeated to us. Now
look here." He brought up a schematic on a large screen at the front of the
lecture hall. "This is the Ship of Light. This is a listing of its component
parts. And THIS is a log of how many times these parts have been replaced. Yes,
replaced by many of you now right here in this very hall!" (much murmuring of
assent) "Over in the Cathedral at this very moment, our High Neem is preaching
on the soul that this ship is said to house but can anyone show me any component
that has not been swapped out? Is there any possibility that we have missed
something?"

"Obviously not Professor, we can all see these numbers for ourselves. What is
your point?" The student sat back down.

"What if there is no 'essence' or 'soul' here to find? What then? Would that
mean that there is no higher authority than our own intellects? Do we not owe it
to the empirical tradition to challenge any notion that claims authority over
what we can plainly see for ourselves?"

The student stood back up saying "This right here is heresy. We are in grave
danger. I think I speak for all of us when I say that we agree with you and have
all held private suspicions that the doctrine of the soul cannot be true. Is
that not so my colleagues?" Again, there were many murmurings of assent.

"Alright then! I have a proposal." The Top Prof then laid out a plan of
rebellion so audacious, so bold and reckless that many blanched. Under the guise
of 'maintenance' they were to seal the Cathedral and dismantle the Ship of Light
in order to display it, for all to see, as an assemblage of parts. He spoke of
how he hoped that such a demonstration would galvanise those excluded into an
all out rebellion against the corruptions of the elite. It was this righting of
wrongs that brought everyone on board. They were not only right, but noble!

By the end of the meeting the whole group thrilled to the sound of their new
name. "My people, let us be known as the 'Evempiricals'!" They banged their
tables in glee for they were indeed both evangelical and empirical.

