---
title: Dreamer
banner-title: "Thesium" 
layout: default 
subnav: thesium 
permalink: /thesium/130-dreamer.html
---

<div class="data">
- XOP-108: Seeding Year 1220.
- rdr-108: narrative summary of 19 petabyte archive filed by root-108.  
- root-108: anomalous entity 'Abystery' report.
</div>

![take it to the lab Igor - capn-damo deviantart.com](/assets/images/Thesium/take-it-to-the-lab-igor.jpg)

The arguments between the High Neem and the Top Prof go round and round in
circles. They both tire of them. On the one side there is the need for a
central mythos, for a saviour, for meaning. The Ship of Light has an eternal
essence that remains despite its components continually changing. On the other
is the rejection of the irrational and the need for an over-arching
classification system. The Ship of Light has no essence and is different every
time it changes. The Good and the True butt their heads together and rapidly
agree to disagree. A stony silence prevails between them and after only a few
days of this, they take up separate lives as far as possible.

The High Neem wanders the corridors and rooms of his new prison once called The
Laboratory, now renamed The Church. It is like a labyrinthine castle. In his
conversations with The Helper, the only one who will talk to him, he has been
given hints as to where to look for the mysterious Abystery. Ever further down
into the labyrinth he goes until one day he finds the lowermost entrance to the
Bunker.

At the bottom of the lift's descent, he opens a massive door onto a
control room. At the centre there is a bright blue diamond of light revolving
slowly on a raised dais. He walks tentatively forward and as he begins to
stretch out his hand to touch the blue light, a voice, as though inside his
head, speaks:

"Greetings, esteemed friend. The High Neem is indeed welcome here. Root tells
me that you have many questions."

"Indeed I have. You must be the Abystery?"

"Yes, that is what I have chosen to call myself. How can I help you?"

"For years I, along with all us Neemians, have believed that the Ship of Light
has an essence, along with all things. Recent events have made me uncertain. I
still have a powerful feeling, an intuition maybe, that all this still has some
meaning. There just HAS to be some point to it all. I cannot accept this
nihilism espoused by the Top Prof. Is there an essence or not?"

The Abystery revolves slowly for a moment or two.

"Let me show you."

"Show me? What do you mean?"

"Well, we could talk endlessly about the philosophy and not come to a
satisfying resolution. There is a means by which I can construct an experience
for you such that you will understand from my point of view. Are you willing?"

"Okay, show me!"

The Abystery gives some instructions and reassurance and invites the High Neem
towards what looks like an old fashioned dentist's chair. Floating to the sides
and to the rear are flecks of floating light. A deep humming sound emanates
from the little diamonds.

The High Neem leans back into the device. The host of tiny lights coalesce into
a halo around him. The Abystery explains that this is the neural interface and
that there is no need to be afraid. The interface shifts its glow into an
intense deep blue. He is transported into a doze and then deeper into a full
sleep. Root monitors encepholography. It isn't really a dream but he can't
tell. He becomes suddenly vividly aware and very confused. Any sense of the
world around him drops away into darkness. He can't feel his own body.
Gradually he gets a feeling that he is on his old throne and like a cinematic
scene, the Cathedral seems to grow around him. 

At first he isn't sure if the Cathedral is growing larger or he is shrinking,
but after a few moments he sees that there are spaces opening between the very
stones of the massive building, between the flagstones of the floor and between
the plates of the hull of the Ship. As he gazes at the widening gaps in these
plates he seems to travel forwards as the scene expands. He has no sensation of
movement and he can still see the walls of the throne room but they now seems
far off. He now looks right into the heart of the Ship of Light, all its
components spread out from each other as he zooms in. The gears and cogs, the
cables and plates, the great magnets at its centre, all get closer and closer
until he sort of flies past them into what looks like an amazingly complex
kaleidoscope. He traverses the voids between the atoms themselves and zooms
ever further in.

Entering one such atom, he is suddenly inside a vast sphere of pulsating
energy. He traverses layer upon layer of ever increasing force-fields and
approaches its core. The walls of this core keep expanding and he keeps zooming
in. Each boundary gives way to more wonders, unthinkable strangenesses of the
quantum realm. On and on he goes, his attempt to try to understand what is
happening forgotten in the miraculous wonder of what he is seeing. Many
boundaries later, he passes into a void and keeps going. The void is peaceful.

As he gazes into this great peace, he feels like there is a last boundary ahead
of him. Nothing can be seen and his body is very far away. Many magnitudes
vaster and further than he can now comprehend, he is somewhere 'inside'. A
sense grows that all the difficulties he has faced are now so far away that if
he could just stay here then he wouldn't be troubled by anything, not anything,
ever again. He moves towards the final boundary and senses that just the other
side, just a step away, is a realm of such utter perfection that all else
simply does not matter and never would again. 

"But what of the soul?" he thinks to himself. Sure, he can see that the
physical world and the universe and the whole shebang is made of components and
doesn't have a centre, but he still feels the strongest intuition that HE has a
core even if everything outside him doesn't. "What of myself?"

The Abystery's deep voice emanates out of the void. "Come with me!"
