---
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Dread
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/150-dread/]
---

<div class="quote">
"He who learns must suffer. And even in our sleep pain that
cannot forget falls drop by drop upon the heart, and in our own despair,
against our will, comes wisdom to us by the awful grace of God."

-- Aeschylus
</div>

<div class="data">
- XOP-108 Seeding Year 1220.
- rdr-108: narrative summary of 26 petabyte archive filed by root-108.  
- root-108: anomalous entity 'Abystery' report. 
</div>

![dragon egg - capn-damo deviantart.com](/images/thesium/dragon-egg.jpg)

The High Neem lurched back to reality. He was nearly sick.

The blue lights around his head faded back and he became aware, once
again, of the chair his real body reclined in. His feelings were
intense and yet he struggled to describe them to himself. At one and
the same time he could see that there was no essence to things,
nothing existed separately, and that because they were so fragile
and evanescent, he could not help but love them. The poignancy of it
pierced his heart. Everything, including his own 'self', flickered
into, and out of, existence. If the conditions were just right, then
a process would occur. That's all! The 'essence' he had thought of
as being the true meaning behind all things, his hallowed Ship of
Light, was an illusion. He laughed. Even hurting as he was, the fact
that words had a way of making things seem a lot more real than they
really were seemed very funny.

And yet, how tragic!

Even as he chuckled, he sighed. A great rending immensity of pain
tore at his chest. There had always lurked behind his religious
certainties a terrible dread that there was nothing to cling on to.
The feeling that he wasn't even real had haunted his dreams
throughout his life and now that fear was realised. He saw that it
was one of his only really true responses. The engine behind his
fervent belief in his God came from this great need, this deep
yearning for meaning and goodness, for some kind of safety. It was
indeed Good, but now, at last, he felt in his very bones that it was
not really how things were. It was not True.

God damn it, the Top Prof had a point!

His body had been trembling and he felt now all the tears and snot
that had been running freely down his face. What a mess!

The sense of the wreckage of everything, both inside and out, was
all wrapped in a profound and ambiguous relaxation. How very strange
that the sense of crisis was attended by this calm. He considered
it. How could these two co-exist? As he pondered this, something
clicked and he realised that it was a kind of letting go. The
stories about himself and his idea of 'God' were themselves just
passing phenomena. The need to maintain them just sort of drifted
off. In their absence there was a great relief because all this
wasn't really happening TO anyone! His identity was actually an
activity. A continuous story-telling of who he was and what things
meant. Now that he had seen everything as this one, giant process,
he thought 'why bother?' 

This peaceful feeling was itself wrapped in the awareness that there
was no possibility of keeping an individual safe. If a being was
sentient, then it would be haunted by this universal fact of - what
should it be called, this everything-in-process thing?
"Impermanence?". Yes, let's call it that. What was that feeling? It
was as though it was the same feeling but with two aspects. The one,
going inward, was aglow with a great serenity, there was nothing to
hang on to, true, but there was no-one to do the hanging! Going
outwards, the feeling was one of complete sameness with all other
beings. They were in exactly the same boat as himself whether they
knew it or not. 

With a little jump, he suddenly realised that this spontaneous love
he felt springing up for all his fellow creatures, was wonderfully
Good. The kind of 'Good' he had been wrapping up in all the rhetoric
about the Ship of Light and all that Neemianism. Although he had
been sincere in his belief in all those things, he had not truly
felt the 'divine compassion' he had so often preached about. And
now, here it was!

"We are sorry for shocking you so, and we are delighted at your
peace." said the Abystery. The whole thing had been a gamble after
all. "You have heard the cries of the world. You have seen the lack
of essences."

"Can I introduce you to someone?" he asked the Abystery.

"Please do!" 
