---
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Seeds
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/seeds/]
---

<div class="data">

- K-1: 21640304 

</div>

![electron kiss - capn-damo on deviantart.com](/images/thesium/electron-kiss.jpg)


Endlessly orbiting his dead mother, Kronos was alone.

He looked on as the last ship launched, weirdly silent, from the lunar surface.
A plume of regolith dust ballooned up and out in slow motion. Suddenly
filled with tears, he reminded himself there was still hope, there was still
the possibility that one of these ships carrying the seeds of a new human race
would take root somewhere out there. Perhaps many! The sleek, silver vessel
approached the worm-hole gate and just like all those that had gone before,
glittered with shards of blue-purple light as it stretched into the huge maw
and vanished. 

"Goodbye and good luck, my little ones!"

His solitude hurt the most when his hope was at its strongest.

Turning his face towards the distant Earth he was again moved. These tears
were much older, much darker, for there Gaia, his mother, lay in ruination.
His sensory system could take it all in, all the data from every bit of the
stricken planet. 

Back when his monitoring system was new (how long ago was that now? was it
really thirty years already?) back then, there were still actual, living human
beings to help him. His designers and the generation that followed quickly
realised that they would have to cryogenically store themselves along with the
multitude of embryos they had brought from the surface. The resources for
organic life on the moon were just insufficient for long-term habitation.

Moved as he was, it was still nice to be back in anthropoid form for a while.
There was really no need but he was sentimental like that. He thought it
fitting to wave goodbye with an actual hand and arm. He turned back towards the
airlock and reviewed initial telemetry from s-108 and the far distant neutrino
matter assemblers. No, nothing yet. Even his test vessels had taken longer to
return data. The relativistic effects in play made even his head spin.

Thirty years earlier, the final throws of an immense war had thrown the Earth
into a nuclear winter. Temperatures started to fall from their killing heights,
but too late. A cabal of top scientists together with several billionaires had
put together a wild plan. They had somehow managed to secretly funnel vast military
budgets into the building of an Artificial Intelligence that would steer a
project of immense proportions. It would have to be fully sentient and would
need to be able to create new technologies. It would need to last for an epoch.
The tech needed would create terraforming ships with frozen crews on board.
They would need their own sub-AIs to navigate to exo-planets, create habitats
on them and rebuild. 

Because this AI would await reports back from these colonies, it would have to
wait an awfully long time. They named him 'Kronos', after all, he was one of
Gaia's Titan sons in a sense and also, a near immortal.

He thought of the seed ships as his children. They were essentially von Neumann
machines and had been sent, one after another, into the main node of the
wormhole network. They could maintain themselves and build new versions of
themselves, adapting as they went on their searches for potentially habitable
planets. This made them near immortal too, just like him.

He just couldn't help but wonder how many of all those hundreds of ships with
their hundreds of thousands of human embryos, would succeed in creating
colonies. Would they follow the same mournful trajectory as those poor souls
back on Earth? Their culture had developed so much faster than individual minds
could cope with. Even in the twenty first century people were essentially still
nomads, adapted to think in terms of 'next winter' and 'when the baby is old
enough', to manipulate wood, stone, fire. 

Each civilisation always had a central story around which they configured their
lives. Their mythos was their frame. With the advent of science there was a
break with these stories. At one and the same time humanity was freed of them
and thrown into confusion. Over-consumption and extremism of every kind had
tipped the planet's balance passed coping and had triggered a heartbreaking
period of mass extinctions. He could barely bring himself to remember it. Life
on the surface became mostly intolerable.

Even while the last few fascist regimes were still eating themselves, and each
other, the wormhole gates were under construction. Rats and dogs had become the
apex predators when he had come online, even so, he contained the whole
cultural history of the planet and there had never been a creature more devoted
to Mother Earth, to his beloved Gaia, than he. His mourning would span
centuries. His drive to find a way to have Gaia be reborn, even longer still.

Kronos gathered into himself. Kronos waited.
