--- 
bannerTitle: "Thesium" 
title: Voyage 
type: prose/thesium
aliases: [/thesium/voyage/]
---

<div class="quote">

"Computers are useless. They can only give you answers."

~ Pablo Picasso

</div>

<div class="data">

- XOP-108: Seeding Year 48.  
- RDR-27: narrative summary of 921 exabyte archive.  

</div>

![sunrise over ice fields from balloon - capn-damo deviantart.com](/images/thesium/sunrise-ice-balloon.jpg)

Theo grimaced as he turned over in bed. He had grown so old everything hurt. It
hurt all the time. Settling back he gazed at the big picture he had hung so that
he could do just this, gaze and wonder. The gondola he had flown over the
icecaps was caught in the first gleam of sunrise. Of course it was Root who had
put all the details together, the drone camera, the timing, everything. He could
make out his own figure, peering through a telescope, and thought it amazing
that so many years could have gone by already. It seemed only months ago that he
was a young man going on an adventure.

Back then he had wanted to see for himself the wonders of the planet they had
settled. Political wrangling and bickering had got too fierce for him and he
had badly needed a break. Lordy but why couldn't the people just enjoy their
fabulous good fortune? They had gone through so much strife to get things to
where they were. Two opposing camps had formed and they vied for dominance.

At the time the picture was taken he was actually deep in thought. The phrase
attributed to one of the old master artists of ancient Earth, Pablo Picasso, had
set him on a long train of musings. What was it? Something like 'computers are
useless, they can only give you answers!' something like that. He recalled a
conversation he had had with Root about it.

"Root, what do you think this Picasso meant by that?"

"Some thought he meant that creativity springs from curiosity. Answers tend to
be like full stops whereas questions can open up new avenues." 

"So it can be a good idea to pursue the right questions rather than the right
answers. Mmm, that really is interesting. What cultures have followed that
line?"

"The Chinese and Japanse Buddhist and Taoist cultures in particular had many
generations of sages who delved deeply into it."

"Oh right, let's see some of these questions. On screen please."

He had read through some lists of what were called 'koans'. He couldn't make
head nor tail of them. "What is the sound of one hand clapping?" for example.
After a few pages Root had listed some 'huatou'. They were much shorter little
phrases, all questions designed to be the focus of contemplation. He stopped
dead at one though. "What is love?"

Even now it had an eerie effect on him. It just stopped him in his tracks. He
had returned to that question again and again during that period of strife. His
trip over the icecaps was secretly prompted by his need to give the question
more time. Just like the Picasso quote, his first reaction was to brush it off
with something flippant, to take it as a kind of joke, but there was a sense
that great mysteries lay beneath the surface, unseen.

Gazing once again at the picture, he sensed anew the opening that had happened
for him there. Drifting serenely over the awe-inspiring mountains that errupted
out of the ice he suddenly found the question had sort of inverted itself. He
had been thinking of 'love' as something he had or didn't have, as some
evanescent attribute that belonged to him, or not. All of a sudden he had the
strongest feeling that it was the other way around, that HE was an attribute of
IT! It was a vast feeling and it was this that was always evoked by the picture.
This 'love' was at the largest possible scale and he felt himself to be just a
tiny aspect of it. It was that way all the time. When he was more aware of
it was when he had 'fallen in love'. The times of depression were when he had
just forgotten this connection.

At the end of their trip they had coasted lower to the landing site and he had
turned to his gondola captain. "Oh no, they'll all be waiting for me down there.
Half of them want to make me some kind of deity! They want something to worship
I suppose. The other half are on some sort of reverse crusade to drive out the
mystics. That lot want to string me up. Damn it, they're looking to me to
resolve it all. I don't have any answers."

That was his first inkling of how he was going to handle it. Yes, yes, he wasn't
going to give them any answers at all.

Theo couldn't help but smile at the memory. Now that he was an ancient sage
himself he knew that he didn't have long. All these years he had waited for the
right moment to give them THE QUESTION! Now it seemed it was going to be on his
death bed, in his very last words, that he'd do the best for them that he could
think of. His eyes crinkled up as he chuckled at the thought of how cross they
were going to be with him. Yes indeed...

What is love?

